# Component of OS

Date: October 4, 2022 11:00 PM
Status: Done

# User Space

> App runs here
> 

> No hardware access
> 

> GUI and CLI
> 

# Kernel

> It have hardware access
> 

> Heart of OS/Core Component
> 

> Very first part of OS to load at start up
> 

---

## Communication B/W User space mode and kernel mode by **IPC (Interprocess Communication)**

1. **Shared Memory  :** Two process running independently having independent memory space, But to communicate the **Shared Memory** concept is used. 
2. **Message Passing :** Os provide system calls which establish logical channel b/w two processes it have some protocols and policies

## Shell

> Also known as a command interpreter, part of OS that receives commands from user and gets them executed
> 

# Function of Kernel

- **Process Management**
    1. Scheduling process and threads.
    2. Creating and deleting both user and system process.
    3. Suspending and resuming process
    4. Provide mechanisms for process synchronisation or process communication
- **Memory Management**
    1. Allocating and de-allocating memory space as need.
    2. Keeping track of of which memory is being is used and by which process
- **File Management**
    1. Creating and Deleting **files** and **directories.**
    2. Mapping files in secondary storage.
    3. Backup Support
- **I/O Management**
    1. To manage and control I/O operations and I/O devices
        1. **Spooling**
        2. **Buffering**
        3. **Caching**

# Types Of Kernel

- **Monolith Kernel**
    1. All functions are in kernel itself
    2. Bulky in size
    3. Memory Required to run is high
    4. Less reliable as one module crashes - *whole kernel is down* 
    5. Example. : Linux, Unix, MS Dos
- **Micro Kernel**
    1. Only major component are in **kernel**
        1. Memory Management
        2. Process Management
    2. Other components will be implemented on **user space**
        1. I/O Management
        2. File Management
        3. Smaller in size
        4. More Reliable
        5. Less Performance : because more **switching** will be done b/w **user space** and **kernel (Overhead Switching)**
    3. Example : L4 Linux, SYMBIAN OS, MINIX etc.
- **Hybrid Kernel**
    1. Advantage of both worlds. (file management is in **user space** other in **kernel**)
    2. Combined Approach
    3. Speed and Design of mono
    4. Modularity and stability of micro
    5. IPC also happens but less overhead
    6. Example : Mac OS, Windows NT
    
- **Nano/Exo Kernels**

---